The airbourne ADB-S reports are crucial as they are the only
computer-readable calibration data available for deducing
oscillator bias, drift and the Perth AFC error contributions.
Inmarsat obviously had access to a much larger training database.

Two public ADB-S datasets were identified and steps were taken to
obtain each in the highest quality possible, and to sanity-check the
data.


Flightradar24
=============

  http://www.flightradar24.com/data/pinned/mh370-2d81a27/#2d81a27
  16:42:30--17:21:03
  62 records: F-WMSA2 (35), F-WMKC1 (20), T-WMKP2 (5), T-WMKN1 (2)

Flightradar24 has more incoming ADB-S messages, but appears to have
consolidation, meaning that the entries shown possibly aren't quite
perfectly the original messages received, but what FR24 do have is
obtainable in a single unauthenicated compact call to:

  curl -X POST 'http://api.fr24.com/api/common/v1/json-rpc/' -X POST -d '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"Aircraft.doGetPlaybackSingle","params":[47716903],"id":1}' -o fr24-pinned-47716903.json

I asked Flightradar by email in tracking number ID [#41330] about the
unconsolidated messages.  The reply I received appeared to be
uninformed and somewhat miss the point I was enquiring after.
Another follow-up does not appear to have illicited a reply.


Flightaware
===========

  http://uk.flightaware.com/live/flight/MAS370/history/20140307/1635Z/WMKK/ZBAA/tracklog
  16:43:26--17:02:40
  31 records: WMSA (17), WMKF (7), WMKK (4), WMKP (2), [null] (1)
  
  [long gap] then 17:50:50 (exactly at IGARI), with no feeder ID...

Flightaware seems to have less feeders.  There does not appear to be
single location to obtain everything in the FA database; eg. the
proper API call (which needs a paid account + authenication) is to:

  https://username:flightxml.flightaware.com/json/FlightXML2/GetHistoricalTrack?faFlightID=MAS370-1394087710-airline-0005

The JSON response does not return feeder ID, which can only be
screen-scraped from the inline HTML (not in JSON).  Notably,
Flightaware's coverage is less, and starts later than Flightradar24
tet there Other than the single entry at 17:50:50 (precisely at
IGARI)---possibly inserted by hand in order to cope with FA's coverage
overwise ending much sooner than FR24's.

In regard of the accuracy of the date, 'GetHistoricalTrack' claims to
only true data is returned:

  http://discussions.flightaware.com/post135440.html?sid=4fb56f9afcf10ef5d3916827896ce081#p135440

  "FlightXMLâ€™s GetHistoricalTrack intentionally returns only actual
  data points, which means that approximated positions that have been
  synthesized based on extrapolations of movement are not
  included. This design choice was originally made in order to ensure
  that people making use of our FlightXML data for research or
  analysis purposes are not mislead by our synthetically generated
  data"

If indeed 'GetHistoricalTrack' only returns what's in the database,
then a conscious human decision was likely taken to add the (faux)
17:50:50 entry into the database itself; which brings into question
the reliability of the rest of the Flightaware data.

Summary
=======

Based on the false FA entry at 17:50:50, and fewer number of records,
and the dropping of direction (course), it would appear that the FR24
Data is of better quality.

It may be possible to salvage some of the imcomplete records from the
Flightaware database.
